Introduce Yourself?
Myself Rayan Ahmed
I am resident of lucknow India 
I have completed my schooling from Cathedral School
After which I went on to pursue my bachelors in Computer Science from Intergral University
And Currently I am working as a Cloud Engineer at To The New 
I am working in India BU
We are handling Indian Clients
As a part of our job role we monitor clients infra 24/7 * 365 
and a part from that we also perform other operational tasks like
patching 
instance rotation 
we also send monthly reports related to security and vulnerabilites and various other Audits to clients
We also provide any Ad hoc data that the client may request for example
We also manage the clients enviroments like UAT DEV etc we bring those env UP/DOWN depending upon the request
We also do deployments on AWS for example launching ec2 instance etc
Basically we are responsible for the availability of clients ifra we make sure its running 
And because in Biofourmis the worload is on Kubernetes so I ll just include about kuberntes projects that I am dealing with in my current JOb 
so
We have kuberntes workload on EKS as well as we have kuberneets cliusters set up manually on instances in 2 project, its on control plane insallation
So in these project we are responsible for monitoring and troubleshooting the kubernertes clusters
For example if POD goes in Pending state Crashloopback etc
or PVC is full then we edit the YAML and increase the storage capacity of course after the permission of client
Or if URL goes down then we do the trouble shoot and RCA so yes
thats pretty much about myself and my job role that Im currenlty in




Which Linux flavour you have worked on?

Command to list out processes?
  Top and htop
  ps -ef

Components of Kubernetes.

How will you take backup off Kubernetes?
  - ETCD already have the current state just need to take backup of ETCD

What do you know about filters?
 Grep
 AWK 
 CUT

What have you worked on till now?
  - I am currently working as ....
  - We are the first point of contact
  - So in our support we perform many tasks as apart of esuring the availability of clients infrastructure
      - monitoring
      - auditing
      - patching
      - GSTN
    

How many types of deploymenrs are threre in kubernetes

What are the P1's that you have faced in your job?
- Unhealthy host count was increased because we were using a combo of spot and on demand and the spot intances were taken back by AWS because of price change because of this website was impacted
- GSTN PT : Client opened a bride because not able to connect to a controller nmachine -> P1 -> Server 1/2 check -> Reboot
- DB connections high -> Replica Read set up and in one of our accounts we have an elasticache configured to reduce the load on the database although tbh I didnt set it up but I got a sneak peak in


BLUE-GREEN DEPLOYMENT
---------------------
There are most of the organization has been followed/ing the Blue-Green Deployment and have proved it as safe method for continuous deployment.
-> strategy in which you create two separate, but identical environments.
  - One environment (blue) is running the current application version
  - One environment (green) is running the new or to-be application version.
Only one enviroment is live at a time 
In that way we can perform app upgrade on one when it is done route traffc to it till that time it will act as staging area
Benifits - rollbacks and zero downtime

Canary deployment
-----------------
A small portion of traffic (canary) is directed to a newer version of application. this way we can monitor the performance of new verison of application
As the new verison seems to be stable the traffic being routed to it is gradually increased
if there is any issue detected the traffic can be redirected immediately to the previous verison

Rolling Deployment
------------------
Gradually rolling out new pods with new version in an incremental manner
DC replaces older pods with newer veriosns

A/B Testing
-----------
difrenet versions of applications are deployed and the users are redirected randomly (using traffic routing mechanisms) to these versions and then performance is compared.

Shadow Deployment
-----------------
New version runs in parallel to existing version user doesnt know.

Feature Flag
-------------
features are conditionally enabled/disabled based on configuration settings. gradual feature rollout and experimentation




What do you know about kubernetes?
  How does self healing work
  How does High Availability work (RC and DC)

I have an application running on POD and developer comes with some changes I want to make changes to the POD What do you think will be the downtime
No downtime if we use DC because in dc we define MaxSurge, MaxUnavailable
maxSurge specifies the maximum number of additional pods that can be created beyond the desired number of replicas during a rolling update.
maxUnavailable specifies the maximum number or percentage of pods that can be unavailable (not ready) during a rolling update.

What are services in Kubernetes?
In Kubernetes, services are an abstraction that enable networking functionality for Pods. Since the kubernetes enviroment is very unstable so when we reschedyule a pod on othernode or new pod comes UP the IP changes so there will issues in accessing the application running in kubernetes because the IP is changing dynamilcally

Cluster IP - exposes a servoce to ClusterIP/load balancing across Pods.
NodePort Service - exposes a service to a port on each node. for accessing application outside the cluster.
ClusterIP services are used for internal communication within the cluster, while NodePort services are used to expose services externally to network clients outside the cluster. 
LOad Balancer Service - Used in cases where our infra is on cloud in that case we provision an external lb
Headless Service - PODS want to communicate directly with each other without cluster IP Instead, it allows direct communication with individual Pods of the service through their DNS names.
Ingress Controller - Not technically a service, but it's a Kubernetes resource helps in path based routing and load balancing

What happens when POD exceeds CPU and memory ?
Whenever a pod exceeds its memory limit a signal SIGKILL is sent which immediately terminates the container and spawns a new one with OOM(out of memory) error.
If memory consumption increases pod will be terminated but in case of CPU, os can allow tiny time slices to consume more than allowed CPU share.

SRE Activities?
- monitoring

Are you OK with this Job?

What are init containers?
init conatiners are just like normal conatiners that run before the main conatiner starts
like ec2 user data 


What is reqiuitred to monitor EKS ?
  - CloudWatch Container Insights provides a comprehensive metrics monitoring solution for Amazon EKS at the cluster, node, pod, task, and service level. Amazon EKS also supports multiple options for metrics capture with Prometheus


Staus Codes
200 OK. The 200 OK status code indicates the request succeeded. ...
303 See Other. The 303 See Other status code indicates that you are being redirected to another resource via the "Location" response header. ...
400 Bad request. ...
404 Resource not found Authentication error
500 Internal server error.

If everything is managed by Kubernetes then why do we need monitoring
Kubernetes monitoring allows cluster administrators and users to monitor the cluster and identify issues such as insufficient resources, failures, pods that are unable to start, or nodes that cannot join the cluster.

What do you know about kubernetes logs?
ogs are records of events that occur within a system, application, or network. These events could include errors, warnings, informational messages, user actions, system activities, and more. Logs are crucial for troubleshooting issues, monitoring system health, auditing, and analyzing system behavior over time.
There are several types of logs commonly found in computing systems:
System Logs: operating system's activities, such as startup/shutdown events
Application Logs: These logs record events generated by applications running on the system.
Security Logs: Security logs capture security-related events, such as login attempts, authentication failures
Network Logs: These logs contain information about network activities, such as network traffic, network device events 
Database Logs: Database logs record transactions, queries, errors, and other events related to database operations. 


Youre watching a movie and it suddenly stops? What will you do?
Dont answer CHeck internet connectivity
ANswer like a SRE 
  PODS
  Network Ingress
  Logs
  IP 


Drawbacks of docker over Kubernetes?
 - No centralized management
 - Single point of failure
 - No communication between Containers running on different host
 - No Scalability
 - Volume attach manually

What are your goals in case we select you?
Well I guess if thr position is of SRE Then an SRE engineer is responsible for 
  Reliability Scalability and HIgh availability
  Change managment

KUbeadm- allows to setup highly available multi node setup
minikube - simpler setup on just one node
Vanilla kubernetes - most basic kubernetes


Do you know about node groups and nodes?
Nodes are VM or EC2 instances 
Node groups are group of EC2 instances


How to drain Daemon pods from Nodes?
first cordon the node
kubectl cordon nodename

gracefully evict the non daemon pods
kubectl drain nodename --ignore-daemonsets

Now manually evict the daemon sets



Name a service which is similar to ASG in K8s / How is autoscaling achieved in kubernetes.
-> HPA and VPA for POD scaling and ClusterAutoscaling for Node based scaling

HPA & VPA & CA
-> HPA scales the number of pods and VPA assigns more resources to existing pods if the threshold is met.
   Scales your cluster nodes based on additional capacity needs for example some pods go to pending state due to resource starvation
   then it will request AWS for some additional nodes on which pods will then be scheduled.

HPA 
First create a deployment 
then create a servioice and expose deployment to the srevice for example php-service
then we create hpa 
kubectl autoscale deployment php-srevice --cpu-percentage=50 --min=1 --max=10


VPA
2 types of resource configurations
-> Requests - minimum number of resources that containers need
-> Limits - maximum number of resources that a given container can consume


RDS, DynamoDB
have you worked on Terraform?
Yes
Have you done scripting? which scripting lang you know
Have you used caching like redis?
What is you day to day task as a SRE in TTN?

If an alert comes and you resolve it, and if that alert comes again next time how would you know what have you done previously to resolve it?
How the traffic flows from the user to the pods on which the application is running.
domain 
DNS
Load balance
TG
Instance
Ingress
Servrice Proxy
POD

VPC, subnets, IGW, NAT Gateway, Route tables, ASG
How traffic flows from EC2 to end user, and vice versa.
How would you insert data in a Database using SQS & SNS.



RDS Questions?

Have you worked on RDS, what tasks you have performed?
Yes I have worked on RDS and infact RDS is in use in almost every project that I am delaing with right now
So regarding the access of RDS it is a bit crirical so we have the access in few projects only where in One of my projects that I am dealing with we 
sometimes get a replica lag error in that case we login into RDS and check for the queries that are taking long times to execute
Apart from that I also migtrated one database that was hosted on EC2 to RDS 

mysqldump -u [username] -p [database_name] > [dump_file_name].sql

then RUN

mysql -h [RDS_endpoint] -u [username] -p [database_name] < [dump_file.sql]



If the database is slow, what would you do?
We analuze the root cause of the slowness and then after discussion with client we decide whether we need a new replica or whether we need to increase the size of DB or whether if there are regular long running queris then we can use caching mechanism

What can you do mitigate an outage of database?
Ensure HA by using Mukti AZ deployments
- creates a clone of DB in Another AZ within Same Region
- Always in Synch with our main DB
- Cannot be used for extra storage
- Cannot be accessed unless a failure occurs
- Backups taken form Standby reduces load on Main DB
- 

Enabling auto backup od RDS
DR strategies


What can you do make a database work a little faster, temporarily (Increase provisioned IOPS to temporarily improve performance)
IOPS | Caching | Replicas | Query Optimization | Monitoring


